we're going out today to try to find 12
dolphins and attach text to them which
our little recording text that can give
us information about their sounds that
they're making and also give us
information about the behavior and as
they're in the vein their own wild
environment
a Dolphins been captured in shallow
water the team work rapidly to minimize
distress to the animal until now it's
been almost impossible to gather useful
sound recordings of world dolphins
because when in a group you can't tell
which one is making which sound
Vincent's solution is to attach a
recording device to the animals head it
will now record all the sounds and calls
made by this individual dolphin while
the team keep a record of its movements
in addition the device transmits a
signal so they can track the dolphin and
recover the unique data at the end
the Dolphins released
it's part of a bigger program and
several dolphins are tagged
at the same time the scientists are
constantly observing them so later they
can match their behavior to the sounds
they're making
the device here measures the distance
between the dolphins
what's going on over there
buzzer splashing I think it's that
dorsal yeah the two dolphins
there's a variety of data that we're
collecting you from the boat what we can
look at is what the animal is doing
whether it's traveling whether it's
foraging whether it's socializing with
other sources those kinds of things we
can observe from the surface
the team has been tracking the dolphins
for six hours
the recorder then automatically detaches
itself from the animal captured earlier
and the team retrieve it
back at base the sounds can be analyzed
at first listen it's a cacophony a whole
range of dolphin sounds a mixture of
clicks whistles and pulses half these
sounds are not relevant to the study
they're used by the Dolphins to find
their way around
they're called echolocation clicks but
Vincent's interested in these other ones
sounds they use for communication and
one in particular there's one very
fascinating sound which is the signature
whistle and the signature whistle is a
call that in a way labels the identity
of an animal that's its broadcasting who
you are so here's an example of a
signature whistle from just one animal